# Two-tier Deployment

Two-tier deployment is where you deploy the frontend and the database on separate virtual machines. In this case, we will deploy the `app` vm in the Public Subnet and the database in the Private Subnet. The two are able to communicate with each other because they are inside the same network interface.

## Virtual Machine

### Creating a Virtual Machine for MongoDB

- To create a VM for the database, follow the steps in the `azure-virtual-machine.md` file.
- The differences are highlighted below.
- Virtual machine name: `cloudfun1-rasheed-uks-sparta-app-db-vm`
- Availability options: select `Availability zone`
- Availability zone: select `Zone 2`
- Image: `Select Ubuntu Server 22.04 LTS - x64 Gen2`
- Username: `rasheed-admin-user`
- Public inbound ports: Select `Allow selected ports`
- Select inbound ports: Select `SSH(22)`
- Subnet: select `public-subnet`
- Select inbound ports: HTTPS, SSH
- Then click Create

### SSH into the VM

Open the VM in Azure. Open the `Connect` dropdown and click `Connect`. Click the Native SSH `Select` button and copy the command like so: - `ssh -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pem rasheed-admin-user@51.142.8.97`. Change the `id_rsa.pem` part of the command to your `private key`. The final command should look like the one below.

- `ssh -i ~/.ssh/cloudfun1-rasheed-az-key rasheed-user@20.0.97.112`
- Execute the command in a terminal to ssh into the VM.

### Install MongoDB

Run the following commands to install MongoDB on the virtual machine.

# update the package list
sudo DEBIAN_FRONTEND=noninteractive apt update -y

# upgrade the package list
sudo DEBIAN_FRONTEND=noninteractive apt upgrade -y

# install MongoDB 7.0.6
# https://www.mongodb.com/docs/v7.0/tutorial/install-mongodb-on-ubuntu/
# 1. From a terminal, install gnupg and curl
sudo apt-get install gnupg curl

# 2. To import the MongoDB public GPG key
curl -fsSL https://www.mongodb.org/static/pgp/server-7.0.asc | \
   sudo gpg -o /usr/share/keyrings/mongodb-server-7.0.gpg \
   --dearmor

# 3. Create the list file
echo "deb [ arch=amd64,arm64 signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/mongodb-server-7.0.gpg ] https://repo.mongodb.org/apt/ubuntu jammy/mongodb-org/7.0 multiverse" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mongodb-org-7.0.list

# 4. Reload the package database.
sudo apt-get update -y

# 5. Install MongoDB Community Server. Change version from 7.0.14 to 7.0.6
sudo DEBIAN_FRONTEND=noninteractive apt-get install -y mongodb-org=7.0.6 mongodb-org-database=7.0.6 mongodb-org-server=7.0.6 mongodb-mongosh mongodb-org-mongos=7.0.6 mongodb-org-tools=7.0.6

# 6. Optionally, to prevent accidental upgrade of your MongoDB version, run the following
echo "mongodb-org hold" | sudo dpkg --set-selections
echo "mongodb-org-database hold" | sudo dpkg --set-selections
echo "mongodb-org-server hold" | sudo dpkg --set-selections
echo "mongodb-mongosh hold" | sudo dpkg --set-selections
echo "mongodb-org-mongos hold" | sudo dpkg --set-selections
echo "mongodb-org-tools hold" | sudo dpkg --set-selections

# Restart mongod
sudo systemctl start mongod

# If you receive `Failed to start mongod.service: Unit mongod.service not found` error, run
# `sudo systemctl daemon-reload`
# `sudo systemctl start mongod`

# To ensure that MongoDB will start following a system reboot
sudo systemctl enable mongod

# Modify configuration file
- sudo nano /etc/mongod.conf
- Go to the Network interfaces section
- Change `bindIp: 127.0.0.1` to `bindIp: 0.0.0.0`

# enable mongod
sudo systemctl restart nginx
